a big hello from portland oregon yay
welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more
today i have a fantastic episode i know
that but seriously this time we have an
awesome awesome guest i don't subscribe
to a lot of newsletter but i subscribe
to his my guest today is kevin lee he is
the head of marketing
at oyster a distributor hr platform to
help company to take care of their
global teams imagine that and he was
also xcmo a buffer which is a tool i
used for a long time in addition to that
he has worked very closely with philly
and the paulie some of a very very
popular sas based platform so welcome
kevin
so happy to have you i'm thrilled to be
here thank you for having me
my pleasure my pleasure
it was wonderful that you worked at
buffer for a long period of time and i
am a longtime buffer user so can you
tell us a little bit about your
experience in buffer and how did you
ramp the marketing and help them
increase the user and what are the
couple things you did and also a couple
of the lessons that you can share with
us
i was lucky enough to join buffer as
employee number 17.
wow
very early days there which is great and
exciting i had no idea what i was
getting myself into was my first job in
what i call like real tech startup scene
i worked at vox before that and a couple
other spots but
the pace and the excitement was unlike
anything i'd experienced before
one of my first jobs at buffer was a bit
around this idea of category creation
and then using content marketing as an
engine for our growth and so i came in
and i really kind of built out the
content scene there i was lucky enough
to join with another
really great teammate who was kind of
another content person she ended up
going down the people in operations path
and then i stayed on the marketing path
you end up staying the dark side yes i
mean yeah she actually being you know
salvaged and you just like stick around
on the dark side you know yeah yeah yeah
so i had a lot of fun there though it
was it was great so
content was really the biggest thing
that we did talk to us a little bit
about content what you did that was so
special and unique compared with the
other company
and what is your approach initially one
of the big things was guest posting and
that was before i joined but our
co-founder was really
prolific in his guest posting
strategy and so he would go out and find
different blogs that were strategically
aligned with the type of customers that
might make sense for buffer and then
write articles for those blogs deliver
value to that audience and add a link to
buffer here and there and bring the
traffic back to the buffer website bring
the traffic back to buffer and i think
it did a couple of things so it did that
but it also brought a lot of backlinks
to our site which helped with our domain
and our search authority and things so
that was really critical like first step
can i interrupt for one second for that
did you guys hire writers to do it or he
did everything on his own we did
everything ourselves yeah people don't
understand that the guest post outreach
takes a lot of time and then you have to
coordinate it find a topic
and also you have to send it to them and
then you also have to make sure that
they actually follow up it's a lot of
work it's incredibly time consuming so i
admire the co-founders effort to
actually do that flawlessly and that's
hard to do and especially you do it
in-house yeah the strategy we took is
that we would pitch something as if it
was already written and so we'd say we
have written
three things on these topics would you
like them and if they say yes
then we'll go and write them real fast
and i have it and then you turn around
like no i really don't have it
it's in our head we had it in our head
we didn't really commit to anything
until we got like the full approval of
yes this is already chosen let's go for
it and so it helped a little bit got it
but from there scaling our content
library was
kind of my biggest undertaking at buffer
and so we went from a very b to c
approach
the growth of content from that
perspective around social media and
viral content we talked a lot about
productivity and life hacking yeah and
so i shifted gears to more of a keyword
driven approach around social media
topics and so we really built our
authority on social media and then
distributed that content through seo and
so the way to do that effectively is you
just have to
really own all the search engine result
pages so own the serps yeah and that
meant writing
four to five articles a week that were
1500 to 2000 words and just like going
for it do you do that yourself though
because that is very much a high
frequency you create 45 blog posts that
means you literally publish one post
every day and i assume you did that for
a short period of time and you couple
that with the seo and also keywords you
try to optimize that do you do that
in-house or do you actually outsource
that to outside writers or the
freelancers to do it
well for better or worse i did it all
myself at buffer so we did all in-house
i worked on three posts at a time and so
one post would be at the research stage
another post would be at the writing
stage and then one post would be at like
the final edit stage and then it would
just kind of cascade
day after day so there's always like the
next thing up gets researched the
following day next thing up gets written
and edited and then like the final edits
it was almost like a machine process
after a while which i think i burned out
after 18 months i wouldn't be surprised
i was how can you sustain it and on top
of it i'm sure you wore multiple hats
it's not just the content creation and
content writer you probably took care of
a lot of stuff so how do you find that
balance one of the things that made it
easy to continue at that pace was seeing
positive results that was great like
getting yeah i think i get a lot of joy
out of the feedback loop of content like
you publish something you get feedback
right away on people visiting or
commenting or sharing yeah so that was
really great when it came to the success
of that content i think it it was
helpful because it didn't
force us to have to do a lot of other
things got it so that's your primary
engine in terms of driving traffic so
that's a channel that you focus and then
that you don't do like a multi-channel
or omni-channel approach right you focus
on just using the content and that's
your core piece if you will and then use
that to do a marketing outreach drive
traffic back to the website exactly yeah
we didn't have any paid ads that we ran
we didn't have a formal sales team so
there was no need for marketing support
there i would say it was probably like
if you consider like google's 20 rule
where you have like eighty percent of
your core work during the week then the
final twenty percent of your time is
spent on
other things it was probably the similar
balance like eighty percent on content
twenty percent on whatever else happened
to to fault my way for you in terms of
from my perspective listening to what
you just said and you focus on the core
content that means you really really
worked very very hard to use the
keywords and also the search to optimize
your content would you agree with that
yeah yeah i would say that
i'm by no means a technical seo expert
took like an 80 20. there's those
numbers these same numbers again and 80
20.
yeah i'm like i can understand 80 of
what i need to
about seo and get really far with it and
so it wasn't like putting together a
really deep technical seo analysis it
was more like
when i do a google search these are the
related keywords that show up at the
bottom so we're going to target those
based on this higher topic and so it was
very like evident it was very intuitive
approach that saved us a lot of time but
got us
most of the way to where we needed to be
can i also ask one more question so what
tools did you use at that time so i
didn't use a tool and so that makes it
easy to share i didn't have a proper seo
tool when i was building out the
strategy we used google analytics and
google search console to check the
performance of them but in terms of
optimization and strategy we didn't have
a tool eventually we did add hrefs as
our tool and now at oyster we use scm
rush as our tool so
now yes but then no
obviously you leveraged content
initially when you started and i know
you probably also talked to many many
startup and especially sas based
platform companies
do you have any advice for a new startup
that the marketing team that's working
for basically the early stage or even a
little bit like a csb series
c
so they actually have more funding do
you have any advice for them in terms of
how they should approach marketing and
how your advice in terms of how sales
and marketing should work together
i'll give you the unpopular answer which
is it depends but i won't leave it at
that
i don't think that's unpopular i really
think that's the core of the answer
nowadays especially in digital marketing
many b2b marketers are looking for the
shortcut or they are looking for the
best practice but they have to
understand that even if you go to
sessions like i teach workshop and the
sessions even if people come to my
sessions i always tell them that
whatever i'm telling you as my framework
and my templates may not apply to you
you somehow need to modify it if you
know how to modify it that means you
know what i'm saying and also how that
applied to your company so i love your
answer of it depends so talk to me more
thank you i feel like you let me off the
hook sorry i appreciate that if it
depends these are the things i think it
depends on it's maybe the best way to
answer that one of the biggest things is
what is your go to market motion are you
sales led or are you product led i think
that'll dictate how you think about the
different channels and investments that
you make let me paraphrase it your
business model how you sell does matter
absolutely yes 100
who you're selling to matters and so an
example of that at buffer we were
selling to folks at
the small business level and so what
that meant for us is that we were able
to achieve a really large scale but our
average revenue per user was quite low
and so it was the 15
on average
yeah then that's hard to grow the
revenue doesn't matter your value has to
be incredibly huge to reach your revenue
goal yeah if you're going to do that you
have to get scale on the user side and
so in order to get scale you have to
choose your channels and strategies that
match to scale and so for us seo is a
huge channel in terms of scale and scope
because google is such a huge surface
area for us and so that matched
with our philosophy there also seo is
free beyond the people resources and so
if we're getting 15 per user we're not
going to have a ton of money right away
to reinvest into things so you have to
think about those
yeah your cost per acquisition cannot be
twenty dollars exactly right
yeah we had to have those things in
balance i think if you have a sales
letter organization where you're selling
into mid market or enterprise your deal
values are going to be higher
potentially than paid channels become
possible for you you might have a longer
sales cycle so you have to consider that
so lots of these different factors come
into play i would say if there's any
like blanket advice
i think product marketing is more
important today than it was
five years ago
three years ago like i think it's
becoming more and more important because
it is such a
almost like a generalist role within a
team like depending on the product
marketer you hire they may have
specialties across the border they may
just have like jack of all trades
in a way so i would say if you have to
optimize for something optimized for
that
or optimize for someone with a really
strong data mindset especially like as
an early hire who can build out some of
the foundation some of the learning so
you understand
if i'm going to try all these things how
will i feel confident that they're
working and i think having someone on
your team who give you that confidence
is important
there's another thing i would like to
ask you specifically is how
did
a buffer or even at your current company
like if you started your business model
is actually for small business owners
what is your recommendation for
marketers that's supporting their sales
team and their sales team based on the
sas based platform that they offer they
now need to reach out to enterprise
customers
but for a long time the marketing team
tend to focus on smb
so how do you suggest the marketers to
do
to make that transition to support say
smb centric type of customer in
relationship to say enterprise
it's a really big jump
i know i'm a b2b marketer and i'm never
really support smb
and i tend to focus on enterprise
segments of it
then when i talk to a marketers are
actually incredibly nimble and agile and
doing things very fast they tend to have
a hard time supporting the enterprise
segment so i want to hear your feedback
on that it's a totally different segment
i think
first and foremost you have to
understand
the ideal customer profile or your buyer
personas like whatever you use there
because they're going to be totally
different people they're going to have
different titles they're going to have
different expectations they're going to
have different pain points there's going
to be a totally different buying process
at the enterprise level than there is at
the smp level it's almost like forget
everything you know
and go learn all this depends on
individuals like for me
it gets me very excited to learn new
customer segments new industry segments
and that was about 10 years ago okay i
was like oh my god new segments i get to
know more about them that's good now i
was like really do i have to learn the
nala segment that's way too much for me
i cannot take it anymore
but i hear you so if there's a you
basically said whatever you think is
working for smb may not work for
enterprise you basically have to you
have to unlearn everything and then
relearn it when you're marketing to
enterprise you need to provide them with
materials
throughout a much longer buying process
than you're probably used to on yes
resources testimonials case studies use
cases
third party reviews like there's just so
much content that you need to give to
them in education and hand-holding
it's not like a full-time job
it is in a way it is yeah so can i also
ask you one more question you brought a
very good point and you hit the core in
terms of marketing to enterprise is very
very different than smb and i agree and
the purchasing cycle tends to be longer
i agree with that too and you need more
content to actually facilitate the
buying cycle i agree with that
so the next question for you is how do
you
measure
marketing's contribution
because the purchasing cycle is so long
and you have icp you kind of facilitate
that you have nql converted to sql
marketing qualified leads to sales
qualified lead but the purchasing cycle
is so long how do you measure the
success and also contribution to sales
when they close the deal we have a
couple different ways that we do it at
oyster so we have
different pipeline targets that we
measure at the top and then all the way
through the different stages so from
lead to meeting to opportunity to
closed one like we have
insight into each of those stages and
how well we're moving people along and
so if we were to focus as a marketing
team
on getting folks from one step to the
next we can measure how much lift we had
from one time period to the next
so talk to me a little bit about that
elaborate a little bit more if you can
does that mean that at each purchase
stage that there is a goal set up for
the marketing team
we don't have that today but if we
wanted to measure that we could go
ourselves on that yeah exactly so today
a lot of the focus is at the end stage
and so what we goal ourselves on
is win rate
and that's the goal that we share with
sales but it's something that we feel
that marketing has a really big role to
play in and so you're right it is a bit
kind of fuzzy like what did marketing
specifically contribute to what did
sales specifically contribute to so we
kind of removed that fuzziness and just
said like we are
all playing the same game here let's
we're on the same team let's just think
of it holistically in those terms so win
rate is one that we look at
another piece of it that we're starting
to measure this quarter is
how many times
our reasons why we win
come up in the deals that we win and so
if we as a marketing team believe that
these are the three things that we want
to be true of our business and our
product how often are our customers
repeating that back to us when they
choose
our product that will tell us that our
positioning is going well also will
dictate in terms of the content you're
going to create in the future it will
and it will force us to be clear on why
we win and also that will help our value
propositions and messaging frameworks
exactly yeah yeah
everything is connected it's like a
universal goal yes exactly those are the
best goals like when it seems like it's
one thing but it's actually
so many things that if you can have one
goal that touches all those different
areas that's
the ideal if you are in it
with the sales team and you guys have a
unified win rate and can you also talk
to us in terms of the marketing
automation tool and also cim that you
use and are these two tools integrated
they are yeah so salesforce and hubspot
are the two that we use
and they're both integrated
one-to-one basis so everything that's in
one is in the other and then we push all
that information into
a business intelligence tool called
looker and so looker is how we
view all of the data dashboards and
things across the company is that very
similar to tableau yes
basically business intelligence or
analytic analytics platform that you
actually create a dashboard that poor
data from different sources and you guys
can look at the dashboards together
collectively exactly yep same as same
thing as tabla
okay very very good let's switch the
gear a little bit i love your newsletter
and you publish on weekly basis and i
only publish my newsletter on monthly
basis because i'm incredibly busy with
client work
and i love your newsletter can you talk
to our listeners and also the people who
are watching this video
talk to us about your newsletter how you
gather information
you wrote long form content which is
your newsletter is a long form and it's
a pack with a lot of relevant and useful
information how do you gather that
information and i love to encourage my
listeners and also the people who watch
this video to subscribe oh thank you i
appreciate that i have a lot of
self-doubt about how effective my
newsletter is sometimes because i don't
spend as much time on it as i would like
to spend so i think what i've found are
some
shortcuts and hacks to actually get it
out every week i think if i had
eight more hours
each week it would be much better than
it is so thank you for liking it in its
current state i appreciate that i
usually end up writing about the things
that are actually happening
to you to me that week and so i don't
have to go and think about this whole
new topic and figure out how to message
it it's more like it's already in my
brain i've kind of been thinking of it
throughout the week and i can just get
it out
so it's kind of like a journal it's like
you're journaling like what happened for
that week and you pick one or two nugget
and then you expand that is that fair to
say that's fair to say yeah so the
format of it there's some links at the
top and then like you mentioned long
form below and so the links at the top
for those i'm basically curating from
curators and so i will subscribe to
watch lots of newsletters pull the stuff
that resonates with me and add it to
mine and then yeah for the long form
piece it's more about just transparently
sharing
the things on my mind during the week
so where can the listeners or the people
who watch the video subscribe your
newsletter where should they go you can
go to my website which is kevinlee.com
or you can go straight to the sub stack
which is kevinlee.substack.com
all right another question i would like
to ask you is what is your daily routine
to be an effective leader obviously you
are managing a marketing team for a
company so what do you do and how do you
keep yourself sane
in such an intense marketing environment
because a lot of things tend to happen
and there's always last minute request
i tend to think of how can i be a great
person
oh that's so sweet i was like okay how
can i just get through today
should i just drink a lot i'm talking
about tea
fluids yes
yeah i have those days also i think the
way that the way i approach
my day-to-day for marketing is just so
intertwined with life as a parent and as
a partner kind of have to think of them
all under one bucket i start my days
very early i start at 5 30. oh wow when
did you go to sleep may i ask well i go
to sleep at like 10 so oh that's pretty
good okay so yeah five o'clock that's
good i usually don't go to sleep until
one so i usually don't get up until like
8 30.
oh not good so we get the same amount of
sleep yeah yeah yeah so i start early i
work with a worldwide team and so
there's stuff happening when i get
online yeah quite early and i can catch
up to what's happened when i was asleep
and so getting up at 5 30 also allows me
then to start my day early but end early
as well so i get to take my son to
school i get to pick him up from school
and then kind of we have
a longer time with family at the end of
the day and so that's important to me
it helps me kind of stay balanced and
centered and then i think at work then
i do have kind of this dedicated time to
be fully focused into that work period
like while he's at school or well the
family is sleeping
and being fully present whether i'm at
home or at work i mean i'm at home all
the time because i work from home but
you know mentally at home or at work um
i think it's really important from a
leadership side
you know i believe that being empathetic
towards your people building a team with
trust and respect and affirmation are
kind of the pillars and so
trying to align with those things
is
how i i think those are the principles
that guide the way that i work yeah
very nice excellent
so last question what are the two books
that marketers must read especially when
they work in a startup environment do
you have any suggestions love to hear
from you
yeah
there's a really interesting one called
i think it's called uncanny valley that
came out last year uncanny valley is
about startup life so it's not
necessarily how to be a better startup
marketer it's just about like
can you believe
like all the crap that happened
can you believe what a weird world we
live in
but in terms of actual marketing tactics
and strategy two of the ones that i've
really enjoyed one of them is called
alchemy it's written by rory sutherland
he works with the ogilvy agency and it's
all about kind of the psychology of why
consumers act the way that we act the
spoiler is that we don't really know why
we act the way that we act
marketers can kind of steer us that
direction dude do we really need to read
that book eliana was like you know what
we're just humans we don't know how we
act the way we act but somehow you need
to find out we need to as marketers yes
yes we do and there's a book called good
strategy bad strategy which is really
great also just around like more of the
bigger picture strategy strategic
thinking a strategy was one of the
hardest things for me to figure out when
i switched from like individual
contributor work to people management
and leadership so
i really gained from books
yeah you brought a very good point in
fact i did a webinar in terms of how to
cultivate strategic thinking
and you are not the only one who
encountered that challenge to be honest
with you when i was not a marketer to
start with i was a cpa my mind is built
up in certain form it's always like
things needs to be in certain order and
it needs to be organized everything
needs to have a process that's how my
mind works so when i moved to the
marketing field
it was very very different
and the creative matters content writing
matters and the way you write matters
there are certain elements associated
with it some of them actually you need
to have a process but certain things you
don't and it requires some kind of gut
check especially on the marketing side i
also encounter the issue when i make
that transition as first several years
is how to think strategically every time
i will present my plan and my
stakeholders or my senior manager will
say okay this is all tactics you are not
telling me your strategic approach what
are you trying to do it took me a long
time to make that transition kevin i'm
so happy that when you said how to be
strategic to me that's very very
critical took me a long time to get to
that stage why you said resonates with
me i say if anyone's listening or
watching like books were the way that i
learned
how to think about strategy and so that
was really key to me because you don't
really talk about it within the
workplace it's just kind of like these
people do strategy and they know what it
is it's not intuitive to learn when you
see it it's very hard for me that was
such an intentional learning i have to
intentionally observe
i will go to ceo's meeting i will go to
the vp's meeting and i will just observe
intensely just like what do they talk
about how do they approach things what
do they say the type of question they
ask you literally have to just pay
attention it's really hard to teach
somebody and i think you can teach
somebody to some extent
but you as an individual somehow also
need to be in a trench and you need to
pay attention and i don't know how to
help people to do that does that make
sense because i was helping several
marketers they took on just like you
they become a leader and they feel like
they need to think differently they need
to act differently and they have some
behavior i can help them to change and
they are very very cognizant of that but
they are some thinking approach
it takes time it just takes time to get
there
strategy is part of the career
progression like if you want to go from
this level to this level you need to
begin thinking strategically if people
want to get to that level we have to
help help them and find ways to teach
that and coach that and so oftentimes
the most helpful thing for me is just
being able to show them through examples
of this is
an example of
a situation where you could have thought
more strategically in this way but it's
very hard to just talk abstractly about
this is generally what strategy is it's
really much more helpful to show
especially based on the examples that
they're like living through and working
through on a daily basis i hear you i
hear you
all right so one last question i promise
i say like last a couple times but this
one is really the last so what is one
place you always want to visit and never
did i've always wanted to go to the
swiss alps and ski them
oh great choice have you been you should
definitely go no i never did but i did
went to one of the mountains in
switzerland i did not ski there i don't
ski if you will but i went during the
summer time absolutely
gorgeous you have to go that's all you
have to say you have to go there's no
way to describe the sublime
it's like strategy you can't describe it
you cannot describe it you just have to
feed they have to absorb it i was like
oh my god i'm here i mean the scenery
the landscape the shape of the mountain
it's incredible
it's on the list so yes it's we'll get
to it eventually excellent kevin thank
you so much for coming to my show it's
wonderful to have you and you share so
much insight with us i am truly truly
grateful great well thank you pam
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]
you